In this class, what we should learn
is how to structure the right side
of the balance sheet, that is,
the net asset and liabilities,
how to finance ourselves according
to the assets that a company
has.
And before I enter the theoretical,
accounting and so on, what
I'm going to do is, I'm going
to put a case and we're
going to start from pure
common sense, right?
You get a loan of $1 million for
six months and you get two options.
With that one million euros,
you can build two.
One, buy used cars, only cars,
only pure goods, and sell them,
and you know they are sold
in a period of two to three
months, or mount an industrial
washing machine, a washing
tunnel.
In both cases, you will invest one
million euros, in one case to buy
the cars and in another case for
the immobilized.
Remember, you have to return
it after six months.
Which of the two options is
more feasible?
Well, because clearly it is this.
Clearly buying goods that are
more liquid and that will
generate treasury in a short
time will allow you to repay
the debt at six months.
However, if what we do is invest
in a fixed asset, a very permanent
asset and very little liquid,
when six months pass, you will
not have money to return
a million euros.
How will you do it?
Now let's explain it from the
point of view of the balance sheet.
But I am sure you understand it better now.
Non-current assets, such as the
laundry, which are low liquid,
should not be financed by
short-term loans in principle.
Because at the time that the
loan is over, the asset has
not yet generated the treasury.
They should be financed
by permanent funds.
Also keep in mind that
usually non-current assets
the balance remains for
a long time within the company.
Let's think, for example, that
we have a fixed asset balance
of $500,000.
It's very likely that $500,000
will remain that fixed balance
for a long time because
you need those assets to run.
Therefore, you should finance it
with either contributions from
the partners or long-term loans,
that is, with permanent capital.
If we go to current assets,
current assets are, for example,
the cars we have bought
that we will sell in
a short time.
They are quite liquid assets
that will generate treasury
in a short time.
We can finance them with current
liabilities or with short-
term fingers, as we have
seen.
You will be able to generate the
treasury and you will be able to repay
the loan.
Finally, we will compare the
asset structure of two
very different industries
or sectors, such as industry
or large distribution.
Let's think about the business of a supermarket.
The necessary investment
asset structure of the industry
has a strong weight, as we
see here, as far as non-current
assets, to immovated,
fixed assets, which is all
the machinery you need to
manufacture.
This requires a financial structure
with a lot of permanent
resources.
You have to have huge contributions
of social capital or
long-term debt.
However, in the case of the supermarket,
as we see, the structure of
the liability is very different,
because the weight of the
current asset is very high
over the total investment.
Let's think that really
much of the investment
is stocks or are the goods
you buy to resell.
This allows you to be more
flexible and to be able
to fund yourself more with
more short-term resources,
even by helping you pay
suppliers.